About integration, that's kind of at a level where I can deal with.
But then some people would come and talk about different people on the commandant staff that they felt weren't being effective.
And you get out of my hands, but they'll go to anybody that'll listen.
And by and large, the advice you got about being Corps Commander came from within the Corps.
No, it came from a lot outside, too, about being Corps Commander.
It came from both.
There were people in the Corps that had certain expectations.
This is where it gets kind of really hard to explain.
There are a set of things that you need to accomplish that are short-term.
which are probably much more of the concerns that the cadets see.
And those are the ones that they usually talk to you about.
But then there's a whole other set of long-term problems out there, long-term issues that need to be dealt with.
They usually are very rarely raised with students or cadets.
More often raised by people who
Sometimes want to make you think about things.
Maybe it was officers who just weren't trying to get you to make a decision about anything, but just wanted to sit down in the office and just vent for a little bit.
It was varied from person to person, and those are the ones that I think I enjoyed working on the most, but also found that there was no real answer to them, and they were the hardest to solve.
All right, so senior year you get back to campus what time?
When?
I was here, like I said, for the first part of the summer and then I left, I think I left July 2nd or something like that to go to Fort Lewis.
Returned somewhere early August, maybe that first or second, I guess it was the second week of August I returned and at that point then I was here for good and things were rolling very quickly by the middle of August.
Your staff, core staff, included about how many people?
It included about 20 people, I think.
And then what kind of secretarial clerical staff does core leadership have?
We had two clerks that were sophomore members of the core.
Sometimes I think we'd have three.
But a lot of it was done on our own.
We didn't really have any secretaries or anything like that.
It would have been nice, but no, most of it we did by hand.
We had resources and stuff available to our use, copy machines and things like that.
What were the first activities that fall for a Corps commander to worry about?
Mostly, the first things to do were to have all the meetings.
There's always a huge long meetings we have with all the commanders, trying to get them set for the start about the policies that exist, the things that they're responsible for.
And that quickly turns over to planning for FOW, getting all the things ready, making sure that we have names and all the paperwork and everything associated with all those cadets coming in.
our activities and everything planned properly and appropriately for all those cadets that are coming in so it shifts very very quickly to that and then very quickly to regular year activities because by the time you get halfway through FOW you're sitting four days away
from the start of the school year.
F-O-W, Freshman Orientation Week.
Oh, okay.
No, that's okay.
No, that's new slang on me.
I hadn't heard that.
That's okay.
F-O-W, okay.
And was there any, that fall, was there any change up or down in freshman core membership?
During my senior year?
I think that it was probably pretty consistent with the year before.
There was a huge increase my sophomore year and a big decrease my junior year and then kind of consistent.
Why that?
I don't really know.
It's really hard to evaluate, I think, the Corps right now.
I could take some educated guesses at it.
The dynamics of this university and the Corps of Cadets have really changed just in the five years that I've been here.
So I can't really, it's really hard to evaluate that.
Then the first activity that you, the first formal activity that fall was what, after freshman orientation?
I think we were getting ready for football games.
You got core marchings to play in, you've got, I think we had some different core meetings that we had scheduled, some speakers for them to come in, so, for freshmen to listen to, and so it got rolling pretty quickly.
Alright, describe the dormitory room for the core commander.
Oh, I don't know.
It was the same size.
The only difference is I was able to have carpet and television and things like that.
And you were by yourself?
Yes, I was by myself.
I don't know if that really mattered to me.
I would have been willing to have a roommate, but I was by myself.
So, you know, we're able to have all the things that you'd want in the dorm room.
And about what time normally did you, were you awake?
I was usually awake by 5.30, same time.
I had never, the time really never changed in the morning.
And went to sleep at about what time?
Well, that's the only thing that did change.
It usually got later and later every year.
So, you know, I don't know.
Some nights were very, very long, you know, way into the wee hours of the morning.
And other nights you were able to get in bed by midnight or whatever.
Did a freshman come to your room to get your stuff ready?
No, I always did all the stuff myself.
I never had a freshman get anything ready for me.
And in the, so you had to be out there ready for the march in at what time in the mornings?
Oh, you mean for formation or for the Corps marches?
Oh, for formation.
Formation.
We were usually out there probably about 15 minutes or so before it started, so, you know, 625, 620, something like that.
All right.
Now, I've not interviewed a Corps commander before, so some of my questions may be naive.
No, that's okay.
What was the routine in the dining hall for the Corps commander's mess?
Sure.
Actually, I very rarely ate.
Most of the time I either had to eat later after everybody left or sometimes I guess I would eat early, but that was usually not really possible.
So most of the time I spent walking around trying to take care of different problems that were going on.
And I tried not to deal with the problems because really the other commanders needed to deal with the problems.
But you have to point that out to them, that they need to correct that.
So when you've got 2,000 people all at one time in a dining hall, you very quickly find yourself running from side to side trying to
take care of everything, anything from food being thrown to, you know, some freshman being asked to do something he shouldn't be doing, so it just depends.
How soon was it that fall before somebody attempted to play a trick on the corps commander?
Oh, I got, I was always regularly.
I mean, anything from, I think this happened all in one day, well, in a 24-hour span, and this was not uncommon.
So I remember the, this was towards the end of the year, but it still didn't really matter.
I was passing down my four diamonds to the freshman class.
So I'd had them outside.
I remember joking around with them because it was just a freshman class.
And before I threw them kind of out into the crowd,
said, you know, talked about it's not about positions and things like that, which I really don't believe it is about positions.
You know, it's enjoying everything else that's a part of it.
And I said, it's kind of like running across the banfield like I did numerous times, only for the band freshman to get very, you know, upset and flustered by the fact that their corps commander had run across the banfield.
So they proceeded very quickly after I got done to
you know, they ran after me, tackled me down, and then threw me in the fish pond, I guess within a couple of minutes.
So they did that, then came back, and as I was taking a shower because I needed to get out of my, because I was in uniform, they threw me in the fish pond in the uniform, hung my uniform outside my door in time for C1 to think that it was pretty funny that I had talked about all the times I'd stole upperclassmen's uniform that same 30 minutes beforehand.
So they decided to take my uniform,
right after I just got thrown in fishpond, and they locked it in a footlocker upstairs.
So that was fine.
They wanted to play that game.
That's okay.
I don't mind it because I usually just took items out of their room and threw it out the window until they decided they didn't want me to throw anything else out the window.
And they didn't realize I had a passkey to get into every room and all these kind of things.
But I came back that next morning.
And now the freshman in E2 saw me coming outside.
I was going to take my dry cleaning down.
And this is that next morning.
And they then proceeded to come all wildcat and all 40 of them come wildcat and out the door.
And I didn't, you know, that wasn't weird.
It was 7.45 in the morning.
Certainly didn't know what they were doing, but whatever.
Well, I noticed they were coming after me.
So I started running.
I didn't know where to go.
And I just started running.
Finally, they grabbed me and threw me through the mud, threw me, just totally threw me through the mud and said, thanks for being a good sport and ran off.
So I was like, okay, whatever, you know, because I realized this is all stemming from that one conversation I had with them just the night before.
Went and took a shower, came back out, 20 minutes later, here they come running out the warm again.
Come and tackle me again and throw me through the mud.
You know, and this is the kind of stuff that happens all the time.
Always got thrown in the mud, always got picked on, but that's okay.
Were there any pranks that you endured that did you any physical harm?
No.
I mean, if you want to be considered throwing through the mud, physical harm.
You didn't dislocate a thumb?
No, no.
I never dislocated anything or broke anything or anything like that.
And most of the time I didn't care either.
I didn't fight it either.
I thought it was funny and always B.S.
with them when they were doing something to me, so it was funny.
What was your way of letting them know, okay, folks, that's enough.
I got something I got to do.
Usually I was pretty straightforward with them.
I mean, you know, it took me a while sometimes to convince them that there was something I really, really needed to do.
But it was so rare that I ever said anything like that.
Most of the times I just dealt with it.
So if I really did say that I needed to do it, usually they were kind of surprised by that and then would stop.
Describe some of the serious matters you had to deal with during that year.
Oh, well, that's a tough question.
There was a wide, wide range of it.
Some of the typical problems that you have to deal with that are serious are, you know, there are always things that upperclassmen or
Cadets just period do that require removal from the Corps.
So you have to deal with that disciplinary action.
There's always different things that require different disciplinary actions.
What were some of those that were serious enough that could be?
Some of them are alcohol violations.
Some of them are hazing.
You know, some of them are hazing violations and that do cause physical harm.
You have to deal with that.
Sometimes it's grade problems.
Sometimes it's
You know, sometimes theft and things like that that you have to deal with.
So, you know, it varies.
I'm not going to say all these things happen often, but they do happen and you do have to deal with them.
Those were typical, I think, that any kind of corps commander would have to deal with.
Then I deal with a lot of things that weren't typical.
I dealt with everything from, I know a freshman that year got into a very, very bad car accident that killed, I think, about six people or seven people that October.
He was asleep, drowsy, driving back, and there was a party across the street.
right down at university.
So that was the first thing I think that I dealt with that was complicated and we were really concerned about a lot of press issues and things like that with the Corps, only to turn around a month later and deal with a bonfire accident.
So, you know, there were a lot of things that weren't typical, I think, that year that I dealt with that were a lot serious.
How did you first hear about a bonfire?
One of my commanders called me within minutes.
I don't even know if minutes is really fair enough.
It was probably quicker than that.
Called me.
It was late in the evening.
I was up studying, had a project due, and he called me to let me know that some of the members in the band had been called out.
They were paramedics and EMT certified, and they had been called out to come out there.
And so he said, I don't know what's going on, but you might want to go out there and check in.
So I went across the room, told the Deputy Corps Commander, Mark Masacek, to go out there and to call Dr. Sullen, who was the Vice President for Student Affairs, call him that I didn't know what was going on, but that paramedics had been called out there.
In the meantime, I jumped in my car and ran down there.
And it had to have been quick because I was there just as quickly as the police were.
And they were there within five or ten minutes of what was happening.
So it was pretty quick.
What was your first impression of how serious the event was?
It didn't take long for me to recognize.
It was pretty instantaneous.
The bonfire was almost completely built.
So the fact that it was completely fallen and I knew that there were people on the stack didn't take very long for me to recognize it was very serious.
Were there any human noises?
that you could hear?
Could you hear anybody crying or moaning?
Oh, there was tons.
There was tons of it.
Oh, yeah.
There was plenty of it.
Some of it was from people who were injured and some of it were people who were out there.
Spectators is not the right word.
People who are clearly out there trying to find friends or things like that.
So it was...
There were certainly a lot of people out there and it varied.
And you stayed about how long?
I didn't leave until 2 p.m.
that next afternoon.
Close to 12, 13 hours.
Is there anything, in hindsight, can you think of anything that anybody might have done following the accident that we didn't do?
Were there any... There are a lot of things, and I think you find that in all the reports that exist today.
You know, just different teaching, different courses that taught people how to do this stuff.
Are you talking about that?
No, no, no.
Oh, just the accident itself?
The accident has happened.
Right.
Is there anything that... To do to correct the accident?
No, that we could have done to respond to it instantly.
You know, there's been a car wreck.
Right.
Oh, I don't know.
Like, I've not heard of any...
You know, I don't know.
I've spent a lot of times, I've been interviewed by different people who are doing their dissertations and stuff like that on crisis management and stuff like that.
And in all honesty, I don't think there's another comparable accident out there.
I've looked at their research just because they show it to me as they interview me and try to get a different insight.
And I don't know.
I don't know if there is a better way to deal with a situation like that.
I think we handled it very well considering the circumstances and the response from the people that were out there was very quick.
It took a little while to get organized out there and that was frustrating trying to get that taken care of.
I don't think it was until probably
about close to 4, 5 a.m.
in the morning before we really were starting to get organized with phone numbers and communication lines set up and things like that.
So it really did take a good two plus hours to get situated, and that was difficult.
But at the same time, I don't know how you would have made that quicker.
And considering that there were so many students involved, I don't know how you prepare 22-year-olds or 20-year-olds or whatever to respond quicker than they did.
If you're dealing with a situation where it's 100% professionals out there doing the work, I think you have a quicker response time.
But on a campus, that's not a reality.
So I don't know if there is something better.
I tell people I believe A&M responded about as well as a group of human beings could.
No question it was a... I mean, the community was good.
The community was great.
I mean, I think even that afternoon,
You know, a lot of us hadn't eaten.
We'd been up late and stuff like that.
And so a lot of us, you know, people had food out there, different restaurants and stuff like that had provided whatever, drinks, food, you know, even places to rest.
So, you know, the response from everybody was really good.
And as far as I know, every student organization and so forth, how soon was it that some reporter cornered you to try to interview you?
Not very long at all.
I guess because I didn't really leave the perimeter, because I was inside the perimeter.
I didn't leave the perimeter until late that, or I guess early afternoon, that I really wasn't called to do anything with the media.
It didn't take long for once I got out of that perimeter to go to dozens of interviews.
So it didn't take very long at all, but in a weird way, that perimeter was a shelter in some respects and wasn't in others.
It was interesting.
And I'm assuming that you were then called at every, almost at any time, night or day for a long time.
It was bad.
That was the first real big media exposure that I had ever had to deal with.
And so that was complicated trying to learn how to deal with the media.
I'll learn quickly, but you'll also make mistakes in learning those things.
and once you open yourself up to talking to media you open yourself up to everybody and i it did i think that's when i for also got a bad taste in my mouth for some of the media i had newspaper reporters that would just come into the dormitories and you know this is a day after or so would come into the dormitories and i mean just hand me a card and say i'll be 10 minutes of your time didn't even introduce themselves we had to kick another reporter out of a dorm who because he was trying to interview
the roommate of one of the guys who died.
And, you know, didn't ask to come in, didn't ask for anything, so we had to kick him out.
So it got very, very busy from there.
And, I mean, there must have been...
I don't really recall how many television cameras they had set up out there, but I would not feel like I'd overestimated it if I told you there were 20 plus set up on the site, on the north side, looking past the mesh fencing into the bonfire perimeter.
And did you feel instantly that the A&M family was pulling together?
At that time, absolutely.
I think people were very, very good to each other, very pulled together, really helped each other out without question.
And I presume that consumed awesome amounts of your time for weeks, months.
I don't, it hasn't really stopped since then.
And this is almost a year and a half later.
Do you still get people, folks like me, asking you about?
Yes, it hasn't stopped.
And that's okay.
I mean, that's part of it, and you have to assume that and understand that.
But it hasn't stopped.
Different, obviously, it has changed in what it is that people are looking for as the time has gone on.
But it's been something that I've had to deal with ever since.
All right, let's shift to a lighter moment.
What are some of the fun things that you got to be a part of as a Corps commander?
Oh, tons of them.
The Corps troops were always exciting.
Doing things with the Corps away is an incredibly neat experience that I enjoyed very, very much.
I got to take some incredible trips.
I guess maybe not Corps commander, but junior year we went up to New York to see the Florida State game.
One of the best trips that I took, although the whole Corps didn't go, it was
Very, very neat.
Junior year into junior year and this is kind of all merges together but
We went to the Sugar Bowl, and that was incredibly fun to go to.
Senior year, went to the Alamo Bowl, and that was fun.
We took a Corps trip down to San Antonio and did that.
So the trips were fun.
The trips were very, very neat.
I got a chance, I think, once that summer, right before I started the Corps Commander year, to go down and have lunch with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and that was fun.
So a lot of experiences I wouldn't have ever had anywhere else.
What other celebrities did you encounter?
Oh, I don't know.
They're not necessarily related to Corps Commander, but everything from us being the governor, and obviously we were down there with the, well, I guess this is after Corps Commander year,
the presidential election and Rick Perry moving into the governor's seat.
A lot of politicians, but that also comes from being a political science major.
That also comes from working with congressional members and state representatives and things like that.
I've had the opportunity to meet a lot of those people, but also when they opened the George Bush School, and that was before, I guess that was my sophomore year, when they opened the George Bush Library, George Bush School, they had everybody you can imagine that was down here, everything from movie stars to politicians.
So, you know, that, it's just been varied, but it's been fun.
All those things have been incredible.
You can't really... What's the goofiest thing you remember from Corps Commander year?
Goofiest thing?
I'm not really sure.
I think being all that stuff that happened in a 24-hour span was pretty crazy.
I had, during Ewok, all the juniors from my outfit came and tied me up.
They tied me up and left me in my room, locked my room so nobody could get in, and there was no passkey in my room.
And then they went out my window.
So that way it was almost impossible to get into my room.
Of what are you most proud of for that year, you personally?
I think we made a lot of impacts in terms of really modernizing the Corps.
We made a lot of impacts, I think, in terms of trying to organize the Corps a little bit more logistically and things like that and improve some of the recruiting aspects of the Corps.
I think a lot of those things were done.
But, you know, you only have time to do so much, and that's what's frustrating about it.
Because we're willing to do a lot of things.
I know it sounds crazy, and I'm sure people 50 years from now will laugh, but...
But that was the first time we had ever shifted to a totally paperless information system.
We had a lot of young guys who were willing to put all that together.
And even just a year before, just cranking out paper copies and things like that.
Which is really even funny because I had all the files from guys that were four or five years older than me who'd done it all on typewriter.
So it changed very, very quickly.
It wasn't like it just...
Happened over 20 year span.
It happened very very fast over five six seven year span and So that was it was tough to keep up with that But the things that are available on those websites now are state-of-the-art at least for today And and that was I was proud to be able to do that.
I think that that has allowed us to do so much Has allowed us to become more efficient and those are things that nobody would have ever thought of and
two or three years before.
So I felt like I thought outside of the box.
All right, now that one's pride.
The next one is goofy.
What's something that you did that just didn't work out, it was goofy?
You got your tang-tungled or got mixed up?
Oh, we tried to have a fun run and tried to organize that, and that was a complete mess.
Because I tried to do what other people learned how to do that, tried to take a step back.
And, two, I can't manage it all myself, but you're trying to do a little bit of coaching while at the same time step in.
The support wasn't there.
It was a mess.
But it was fun to do it.
We had a good time doing it and enjoyed it a lot.
But, no, it wasn't necessarily a success at all.
Right.
If you were advising a new corps commander today, what would be the key items of advice you'd give them?
I wish I had about an hour or two hours to talk about that.
I think the first thing is to really evaluate your philosophies as a person.
It sounds easy, but it's hard to do.
And I think, especially at this age, it's hard to do.
Evaluate your philosophies, because in doing so, I think you will find what's really a priority to you and what's not a priority to you.
And it's OK to not have the same priorities as someone else.
But by establishing your priorities, you allow yourself to really shape what your goals ought to be.
Because if something's a priority that isn't being portrayed that way, then clearly you know what you need to work on.
I think it really helps to directionalize what you're doing.
But it's also not an easy thing to do.
All right.
Then the next, your fifth year, you were president of the student body.
At what point did you begin to dream of that?
It was sometime late November, early December, but then fully recognizing that we were getting ready to go on Christmas break.
I knew there really wasn't much we could do there.
Did you think of that, or did somebody put the idea in your head?
It was really somebody else.
I mean, I had thought about it, but I really didn't seriously consider it.
You know, I was very burned out, I think, at that time, just with a lot of things that had happened.
I mean, it was only a month after the accident.
with the bonfire accident.
Just didn't really know if that's exactly what I wanted to do for another year.
So that took a lot of time and consideration to think about, but it just escalated very quickly.
It started with just somebody joking around, and next thing I know it was probably just three days later before we had done a lot of work.
So it started very early.
I know that three months sounds like a long time to prepare for a campaign,
but it's really not.
I mean there were people who started four months before me and that's just difficult.
Who did you call on as your key assistants in that effort?
Well the first thing I actually wound up having was some
friends that were in the Corps from other outfits.
The people that helped me the most during that time were some of the people that were on Corps staff but not in campaigning, helping me manage the Corps while I couldn't necessarily do all the things I would have liked to have done.
And they did a wonderful job at that.
Did, was there any, the student body president the year before, or that year, the year your corps commander, was he a corps member also?
No.
All right.
The, as you are getting organized, did you begin to try to reach out to be inclusive?
I've always been a very extroverted person.
So I've always spent a lot of time outside the Corps as well as inside the Corps.
So that wasn't necessarily a big challenge for me.
It seems that it's been very cyclical in the Corps that Corps commanders one year tend to be very internally focused.
Others tend to be very externally and concerned about the image of the Corps.
And it's almost certain that every year it flips back and forth.
I don't know why.
It's not like we pick them for that reason.
It just seems to happen that way.
And I spent a lot of time trying to build the Corps' reputation outside the Corps of Cadets because I felt that I had competent people to manage the things inside the Corps of Cadets.
And so that helped me to do a lot of things and work with people outside.
So it wasn't necessarily a new thing that I was trying to learn how to do, but certainly there are things that you have to pick up.
And what were the major points y'all tried to make in the campaign?
Well, we try to talk about everything from, well, I think before I even say this, let me just clarify it with what you assume to be a problem when you start is not necessarily what really is a problem when you finish.
I think when we started out, we tried to work with parking and we tried to establish more parking lots and better transportation systems.
I mean, we've got 20-year-old, 25-year-old buses and trying to improve that.
trying to improve some more leadership organizations.
We don't have anything aimed at sophomores, which is ironic, considering we have so many freshman leadership organizations.
So we really tried to focus on creating one of those and tried to, now that we have Aggie Bucks that are so readily used, and that's new.
That started only three or four years ago, but has just boomed since they've come into existence.
trying to expand that we've got that in different locations now that weren't available so that's what we started out talking about and what we wound up having to talk about were very different.
What did you have to talk about?
Well, when I got elected, we hadn't even determined what was the cause of bonfire yet.
So there was no bonfire issue.
That happened three weeks after I got elected.
That became a very big issue.
Parking wasn't a problem, even though people want to make it a problem.
Transportation I guess is, but that's a lot bigger problem out there than just this campus.
It has to deal with the infrastructure and a lot of different things with the city.
So that's changed.
So there were academic programs out there in terms of the fact that this school is getting harder to get into and how do we deal with the increased number of people that want to get in here.
So working with community colleges and working with other universities, that was really a problem.
Legislature.
didn't take into account a lot of the things that happened in the legislative year.
And those were very, very much impacted this year by the fact that we spent the whole spring working on that.
So, you know, there's a lot of other things you don't realize once you get in there.
And that's just the issue focused.
I did not realize that student government had a thousand people in it.
And I did not realize that student government also was not managed anything like what the MSC has.
And so there were a lot of things internally to organize in that organization.
So very, very different experiences.
Was there much transition from